07, 2007: Old School RuneScape
"$11": The old monthly rate for membership in USD; often jokingly used on social media in minor complaints about the game implying that one is not getting their money's worth. Frequently accompanied by crab emojis (🦀).
"$12.49": The previous monthly rate for membership in USD. Refer to $11 for usage.
"$13.99": The current monthly rate for membership in USD. Refer to $11 for usage.
2h: Two-handed sword or felling axe
2+1: A method of boosting loot potential at Chambers of Xeric where 2 players will complete the raid and 1 alternate account will not participate in the fighting, but simply be in the room to boost the amount of reward points the other players can receive. This abbreviation can be used to describe any ratio of accounts used. Also known as "scaling" a raid.Alternatively, may be used for describing the number of accounts in boosting other bosses.
2:1: A method used in high-level PvM combat where the player will deal damage to a boss 2 times while only allowing the boss to hit them 1 time in order to minimise the potential damage the boss can deal during a fight. This abbreviation can be used to describe any ratio of damage dealt by the player and the boss. These methods are usually performed by taking advantage of pathfinding mechanics to synchronize their attack speeds, such as walking under the boss for 1 or 2 game ticks so that the player is temporarily out of its attack range.
200m: 200 million experience
200m all: Obtaining 200 million experience in all skills
2147m: 2,147,483,647 is the maximum number of items that can be in one item stack, whether they are bank notes or stackable items. In the context of coins, this is known as "max cash". This limit is set because RuneScape uses 32-bit signed integers to store values, which are unable to represent a higher number.
2s2g: 2 sandstone, 2 granite; a Mining training method involving tick manipulation.
1.5t, 2t, 2.25t, 2.5t, 3t, 4t: X-tick training; a method of training gathering skills sometimes involving tick manipulation. Fractional/decimal-based tick manipulation methods are a reflection of their effective-overall rate; 1.5 tick teaks refers to a 3 tick skilling cycle with 2 rolls, hence 1.5t.
3a: Third Age, usually referring to Third Age equipment.
3t4g: 3 tick, 4 granite; a method of training Mining by using a 3-tick cycle for tick manipulation. The "4g" refers to needing 4 granite rocks to continuously tick manipulate without needing to stop for rock respawns.
3t4s: 3 tick, 4 sandstone; similar to 3t4g, but with sandstone instead.
99: Maximum level for a skill; Skill mastery
<><, ><>: Fishing
(a): Autocast, activated
Abby: Abyssal, Aberrant spectres, Abyssal whip, Abyssal demon
AC: Anti-crash (usually for bosses or group Wilderness fights)
ACB: Armadyl crossbow
Acc: Account, Accuracy
ACP: Armadyl chestplate
ACS: Armadyl chainskirt
Addy: Adamant
ADS: Anti-dragon shield, Abyssal dagger (p++)
AFK(ing): Away from keyboard—an account training while the person has gone away from the keyboard. Also used more broadly to refer to low intensity training.
Aggro: Aggressiveness (referring to a monster's behaviour around players)
Agi, Agil: Agility
AGS: Armadyl godsword
Air(s): Air rune
AKD: A Kingdom Divided
Alch(ing): Using either Low or High Level Alchemy to convert items into gold.
Alt: Alternative account, generally the second account.
Ammy: Amulet, Ammonite Crabs
Anc(es), Ancy: Ancestral robes
Ancients: Ancient Magicks
Ang: Necklace of anguish
ANGS, AGS2: Ancient godsword
Anti: Antipoison, Anti-dragon shield or Antifire
AntiD (shield): Anti-dragon shield
AntiP, AP: Antipoison potion
AoE: Area of effect—referring to attacks that affect multiple targets at once, such as chinchompas or Burst and Barrage spells from Ancient Magicks.May also refer to area effects such as darkness or the desert heat.
AotD: Amulet of the damned
Arc: Arcane spirit shield, Arceuus (house or spellbook), Arclight
Ardy, Ard: Ardougne
Arma, Arm: Armadyl, Kree'arra
Asg: Asgarnia
Atk, Att: Attack, attacker role in Barbarian Assault
Aug: Augury
Autoer, autoing: A bot user, using a bot
Auto, AA: Auto Retaliate
Auto [attack]: A regular attack in a PvM encounter, especially one with special attacks
Ava's: Ava's attractor, accumulator, or assembler
Avernic: Avernic defender
Avs, Avies, Avys: Aviansie
AWS: Ancient wyvern shield
(b): Blessed (sickles)
B, Bil: Billion, e.g. 1B = 1,000,000,000 coins.
B2B, BTB: Bones to Bananas, Back to back
B2P, BTP: Bones to Peaches
B3B, B2B2B: Back to back to back
BA: Barbarian Assault
Bally: Ballista
Bank made: An exclamation, usually sarcastic, about the value of a drop or other benefit. Particularly used of drops (such as dragon boots) which used to be extremely valuable and are now merely "nice".
Bankstanding: AFKing or socialising with other players in a populated area such as a bank or the Grand Exchange.
Barb: Barbarian, Barb-tail harpoon, Barbarian Village
Barb Village, Barb Vil: Barbarian Village
Barrage: Ice Barrage or any other Barrage spell in the Ancient Magicks spellbook.
Baxe: Battleaxe
BBD: Brutal black dragons
Bbones: Big bones
BCP: Bandos chestplate
BCS: Beneath Cursed Sands
BF: Blast Furnace, Amulet of blood fury
Bgloves: Barrows gloves from Recipe for Disaster
BGS: Bandos godsword
BH: Bird house, Bounty Hunter
BiS: Best-in-slot
BJ(ing): Blackjacking, a way to train Thieving.
BK: Bot kill(ing) (Player killing bots in the Wilderness)
Blitz: Ice Blitz or any other Blitz spell in the Ancient Magicks spellbook.
Blob(s): Jal-Ak, Tz-Kek
Blood(s): Blood runes, Bloodvelds
Blorva: Ancient blood ornament kit
BM: Blast Mine
Boss kc: Boss kill count
Bowfa, Bofa: Bow of faerdhinen
Box: Purposely being attacked by a friend or monster whilst in single combat in order to avoid being killed by a PKer.
BP, Bpipe: Toxic blowpipe
Brace: Bracelet
Brassy: Verac's brassard
BRD: Brutal red dragons
Brew(s): Typically Saradomin brews or, rarely, Zamorak brews. Can also refer to the act of drinking a brew.
Brid: A player who fights with more than one point on the Combat Triangle. See hybridding.
Brim: Brimhaven, Brimstone
B ring: Berserker ring
Broads: Broad-tipped bolts (Ranged ammunition)
Bryo: Bryophyta
BS: Bow strings, bank sale, back stabber (BSer, usually used in PvP)
B sale, Bsale: Bank sale (used when players have lots of stuff to sell)
Bsk, Bskr, Berz: Berserker
BSS: Blessed spirit shield, sometimes erroneously used for Saradomin's blessed sword.
B staff: Battlestaff
Btw: By the way. Also used as a joke to refer to Ironmen, example: "I'm a btw, btw" meaning "I'm an ironman, btw."
Buckler: Twisted buckler
Bulwark: Dinh's bulwark
Burgh, Burg, BDR: Burgh de Rott
Bwan: Karambwan
(c): Corrupted
CA(s): Combat Achievements
Cammy, Cam: Camelot
Cannon, Cann: Dwarf multicannon
Cata: Catacombs of Kourend, Guardians of the Rift catalytic energy
Cath, Cathy: Catherby
Cav: Cavalier
Cb/Cmb/Cbt/Cmbt (lvl), CL, Combat: Combat (level)
Cball: Cannonball
Cbow, CB: Crossbow, Crystal bow, Craw's bow
CC: Chat-channel
Cerb: Cerberus
CG, CGaunt: Corrupted Gauntlet
Chally: Crystal halberd
Chain, CB: Chainbody
Chanced: Receiving an attack from a boss or player when the attacker's max hit is above their target's current hitpoints, but the target does not die from the attack; leaving survival up to chance.
Chargescape: Term that refers to an overabundance of items that degrade and requires charges to be used (eg. scythe of Vitur, crystal equipment, toxic blowpipe) — usually derogatory
Cheese cape: Fire cape
Chest, CP: Chestplate
Chillpo: Chili potato
Chins, Chinning: Chinchompas, or the act of hunting/using chinchompas.
Chip damage: A term used to refer to small amounts of damage, usually dealt by NPCs that partially ignore protection prayers, that chip away at the player's health. It also refers to unavoidable damage taken regardless of the player's skillful inputs in such encounters.
Chofl: A haughty way of expressing contempt towards another player. Variant of "Rofl".
Choob: A high-level player who acts like a noob.
Clue, Clueing: Clue scroll, attempting to get a clue scroll or doing Treasure Trails.
CM, Challenge Mode: Chambers of Xeric Challenge Mode
Col: Barbarian Assault Collector role
Col log, CLog, CL: Collection Log
Collat, Collatting: The act of borrowing an item whilst giving items of equal value in return as collateral. Used by players who don't want to sell their items to buy different items.
Con, Cons: Construction
Corp: Corporeal Beast
CoX, Chambers: Chambers of Xeric
(cr): Corrupt (Bounty Hunter ornament)
Crash: Stealing a person or group's kills at a multicombat boss (like God Wars Dungeon, or Dagannoth Kings). See crashing.
CW, CWA, CWars: Castle Wars, Clan Wars, change worlds (CW)
D/Drag (weapon/armour name): Dragons, Dragon equipment
D2H: Dragon 2h sword
DA: Former Duel Arena, Desert amulets (e.g. DA4)
Dag, Dagg: Dagannoth, dagger
DB: Deathbanking, a method of banking/storing items in an Item Retrieval Service (IRS) by intentionally dying in an activity or to a boss which has said IRS mechanic. When done by Ultimate Ironman players, it's usually intentional.
Dbolts, D bolts: Dragon bolts
Dbones, D bones: Dragon bones
Dbow: Dark bow
DC: Disconnected, Death Charge
Dced, Dc, Dc'd: Disconnected
DCB: Dragon crossbow
Dchain: Dragon chainbody
Dclaws: Dragon claws
DD: Asking players to stand on one specific tile (see Death dot below); Dragon dagger, Dragon defender
Ddarts: Dragon darts
Ddef: Dragon defender
DDP: Dragon dagger (p)
DDP+: Dragon dagger (p+) — sometimes mistakenly used instead of DDP++.
DDS, DDP++: Dragon dagger (p++)
Dead content: Content or aspects of gameplay that are rarely utilised due to being outclassed or giving no rewards.
Death dot, DD: A multicombat player killing tactic where a number of players stand on the same square, making them appear as one player on the minimap.
Def: Defence, Defender
Def tank, Defence tank: Player with a Defence level of upwards of 90 or higher. Usually a player who is not pure and has Defence as one of their highest combat skills. See tanking.
Dex: Dexterous prayer scroll
DFH: Dragon full helm
DFS: Dragonfire shield. Sometimes erroneously used for Anti-dragon shield.
DFW, DFWard: Dragonfire ward
Dh: Dharok the Wretched's equipment
Dhally: Dragon halberd
Dharok'ing, Dh'ing: Getting one's Hitpoints as low as possible while in full Dharok the Wretched's equipment to maximise damage inflicted in battle. Often accompanied with protection prayers.
Dh axe: Dharok's greataxe
DHCB, DHC: Dragon hunter crossbow
Dhide, D hide, D'hide: Dragonhide
DHL: Dragon hunter lance
DK(s): Dagannoth Kings
Dinh's, Dinny B, Dinny, Door: Dinh's bulwark
Disgraceful: A full graceful outfit with intentionally mismatched and clashing colours, usually with a different colour for each piece
Dlegs: Dragon platelegs
DM: Deathmatch
Dmed: Dragon med helm
Dmg: Damage
DMM: Deadman Mode
Dolo: A method of boosting xp/hr or boss kills/hr by playing two accounts at once. Combination of the words "duo" and "solo".
DP: Drop party, drop potential, death potential, door partner (to get past the doors in the Waterbirth Island Dungeon), Death Plateau
Dplate: Dragon platebody
DPS: Damage per Second (amount of damage dealt over time)
Dry: To not obtain a desired drop for a long time, usually going over the item's drop rate.  Antonym: see spooned.
DS: Dragon spear, Double shot (mainly used in reference to the dark bow and magic shortbow), dragon scimitar
DS1/DS, DS2: Dragon Slayer I and Dragon Slayer II, respectively
Dskirt: Dragon plateskirt
DT1/DT, DT2: Desert Treasure I and Desert Treasure II - The Fallen Empire, respectively, DT2 can also refer to bosses or rings Desert Treasure II unlocks.
Duel: Ring of dueling, former Duel Arena
Duke: Duke Sucellus
Dusts, Dusties: Dust devils
DWH, DWar: Dragon warhammer
(e): Enchanted (bolts), Enhanced
Ecto: Ectofuntus, Ectophial
Edge: Edgeville
EHB: Efficient hours bossed: a measure of how many hours an account has spent continuously killing a boss at the average achievable kill time. Similar to EHP, if the average kill count of a certain boss in an hour is 35, each time a player kills 35 of said boss, they have gained 1 EHB, regardless of how long it actually took them to kill that amount of said boss.
EHP: Efficient hours played: a measure of how many hours an account has spent gaining experience, assuming only the most efficient methods were used. For example, if the most efficient method of gaining experience in a certain skill grants 100,000 experience per hour, each time a player gains 100,000 experience in that skill, they have played 1 EHP (regardless of how many real hours it took them to get that amount of experience). Also used to refer to the best viable training method for a skill (for example, "3t4g is EHP"). See Experience rate.
Eldritch, Eld: Eldritch nightmare staff
Ele: Chaos Elemental, Guardians of the Rift elemental energy
Ely: Elysian spirit shield
Ess, Essence: Rune or pure essence (for variants with P).
Etc, Etce: Etceteria
EOC, EoC: Referring to Evolution of Combat or RuneScape 3
EVoid: Elite Void Knight equipment
(f): Fortified
F2P(ers), FTP: Non-members (Free-to-play)
Fally: Falador
Fang: Osmumten's fang
Farcaster: Someone who casts a "hold" spell and doesn't go face-to-face with another player (often used with Ancient Magicks' freeze spells).
Fashionscape: A term jokingly used to describe RuneScape as a dress up game or in reference to worn outfits.
FBow: Bow of faerdhinen
FC, FCC: Friends Chat, another name for Chat-channel.
FCape, FC: Fire cape
Fe: An ironman, usually included in usernames of iron characters. Derived from the chemical symbol of iron.
Fero(s): Ferocious gloves
FFA: Free-for-all — an agreement when bossing with other players to have the person who gets a drop keep it for themselves.  Antonym: see splitting.
FG, Faceguard: Neitiznot faceguard
Fleshies: Flesh Crawlers
Flip(ping): A term that refers to buying an item and then, within a short period of time, selling it for a profit.
FM: Firemaking, Farming, Forum moderator
FMod: Forum moderator
Freeze, Frz: Ice spells
Frem, Fremmy: Fremennik, usually referring to the Fremennik Diary.
Froob: Free-to-play noob
FSW: Fresh Start Worlds
FT: Fighter torso, Fairy Tale quests (e.g. FT2), Fishing Trawler
Full: Complete set that usually consists of a helm, shield, body piece and leg piece (such as full rune armour), or inventory being full (e.g. picking flax).
Funning: Duelling for fun.
Fury: Amulet of fury
(g): Gilded, Gold trimmed
G (weapon/armour name): Granite (e.g. G maul) or Guthan the Infested's equipment (e.g. G spear)
Gains: Progress, particularly in training a skill.
Gargs: Gargoyles
Gaunt: The Gauntlet
GB: God book
GC: Barbarian Assault gamble count
GD: Green dragons or Greater demons
GDT: Gem Drop Table
GDZ: Demonic ruins (Greater demon zone)
GE, G/E: Grand Exchange
GF: Giants' Foundry, Good fight (when used in PvP).
GG: Grotesque Guardians, General Graardor, Good game.
GH: Green Hill (Wilderness, popular player killing spot)
GIM, GIMp, GI: Either a single player ("I play a GIM") or a collective team ("Our GIM") in Group Ironman Mode; the 'p' standing for player.
Gl: Good luck
GLog: Green log(ged); completing a section in the Collection Log turns the number green.
Glory: Amulet of glory
Gmaul: Granite maul
Gold sink: An activity that removes a significant amount of an item (that holds a monetary value) or currency from the game. For example, training Prayer through the usage of a gilded altar is considered a gold sink.
GotR: Guardians of the Rift
GP: Gold pieces (i.e. coins), the primary currency used in Old School RuneScape.
Green cash stack: A stack of 10 million or more coins (referring to the fact that the number on a stack of 10 million or more items is displayed in green)
Grind: The time and energy that has to be put in to achieve a goal, typically one that's repetitive or tedious. For example, a player who hates doing quests might say they're on the quest grind while working towards the quest cape.
GS: Godsword
Guth, Gth: Guthix or Guthan's
GWD, GW: God Wars Dungeon
Gz, Grats: Congratulations
(h#): Heraldic armour from Treasure Trails, the # being the design number.
HA, High Alch: High Level Alchemy
Hally: Halberd
Harm, Harmo: Harmonised nightmare staff
HB: Heavy ballista
HC, HCIM: Hardcore Ironman
HCGIM: Hardcore Group Ironman
Hells, HH, Hellies: Hellhounds
Helmet: Derogatory term for an Ironman. Comes from the Helmet icon that Ironmen have next to their names.
Herb: Herblore
Herby: Herbiboar
Hilt: Godsword hilt
Hills, Hillies: Hill giants
HMT: Hard Mode Theatre of Blood. See Theatre of Blood/Hard Mode.
Hop: To change worlds. See world switching.
HP: Hitpoints—could be used to refer to a player's Hitpoints level.
HPK: Honour PKing
Huey: The Hueycoatl
HS: Hallowed Sepulchre, HiScores
HT: Home teleport
Hybrid: A player who fights with more than one point on the Combat Triangle. See hybridding.
(i): Imbued
Ignore: Ignore list
IM, Iron: Ironman
Inf: Infinite, Infernal cape, Inferno, Infernal tools, Infinity robes
Inq, Inquis: Inquisitor's armour
Inv, Invent, Invy, Inven, Invo: Inventory
Invoc(s), Invo: Tombs of Amascut invocations
Jad: TzTok-Jad, Tzrek-jad, JalTok-Jad
Jad hands: Hands shaking from nervousness, potentially causing misclicks (akin to fighting Jad for the first time)
Jad phase: A boss phase which alternates between Magic and Ranged attacks (such as  Zulrah or Alchemical Hydra)
Jadding: Extension of "Jad phase": a boss unpredictably and rapidly swapping between attack styles resulting in unavoidable damage (such as during Olm)
Jamflex: Jagex with a negative connotation. "Jamflex, fix your servers! They're laggy."
JMod: Jagex moderator
Jordans: Primordial boots
Justi: Justiciar armour
K: Thousand, e.g. 1k = 1,000 coins, Karil's
Kand, Kanda, Kan: Kandarin
Karam: Karambwan, Karamja
KBD: King Black Dragon
KC: Kill count
KCB, Kbow, KXB: Karil's crossbow
Kelda, Keld: Keldagrim
KG: Unit of Weight
Kite: Kiteshield
Kite/Kiting: Moving around to pull an enemy (usually an npc) into another area, "like a kite", especially when safespotting.
KO, K0: Knock-out, instant kill
Kodai: Kodai wand
Korasi: Voidwaker
(kp): Karambwan paste
KPH: Kills per hour
KQ: Kalphite Queen
KSkirt: Karil's leatherskirt
KTop: Karil's leathertop
(l): Locked
LA, Low Alch: Low Level Alchemy
Lance: Dragon hunter lance
Law(s): Law rune
LB: Lightbearer
LBA, LBBA, LBB: Leaf-bladed battleaxe
LBS: Leaf-bladed sword
LD: Lunar Diplomacy
Leech: Someone who does nothing in a team-work based activity. Many look down upon these people because of the fact that they earn rewards without helping.
Legs: Platelegs
Leppy, Lepper: Woodcutting Leprechaun
Lesser: Lesser demons
Levi, Lev: Leviathan
LF: Looking For:
LFG: Looking For Group:
LFR: Looking For Raid:
(lg): Item sets containing platelegs.
Life: Ring of life
Limp: Limpwurt root
LMS: Last Man Standing — a player-versus-player battle royale style minigame.
Lob, Lobs, Lobby: Lobster
Long: Longsword, longbow
Looter: One that gathers on the spot of a kill in hopes they can get something valuable.
Lova: Lovakengj, Lovakite
Lumb, Lumby, Lummy: Lumbridge
Lumby Teleport: Lumbridge Teleport, also used sarcasticly to refer to a very quick death, often in PvP situations
Lvl, Lv: Level
(m): Mature
M, Mil: Million (e.g. 6M = 6,000,000)
MA: Mage Arena, located in the deep wilderness; not to be confused with the Mage Training Arena (MTA).
MA1, MA2: Mage Arena I and Mage Arena II miniquests, respectively, sometimes referring to the god capes obtained from the miniquests.
Mage, Mager: Referring to the Magic skill, a player who uses Magic more than Ranged or Melee; an NPC wizard; a player with 99 Magic; a player currently using Magic for combat.
Mage bank: The bank located within the Mage Arena in Deep Wilderness.
Mage tank: Player with high Magic and Defence.
Mager: Ket-Zek, Jal-Zek
Main: A player's main character; in the context of PVP, an account with no restrictions imposed on its combat stats.
Mass(ing): Fighting a boss or raid (such as the Corporeal Beast or the Chambers of Xeric) alongside many other players (either strangers or clan members). Unique drops are usually considered free for all. Commonly done either for fun or for a slim chance at profit.
Mats: Raw materials used in processing skills (eg. ores, logs, Farming crops, Herblore ingredients)
Maul: Granite maul, Obsidian maul
Mauler: Player who uses a Granite maul, or Obsidian maul as their weapon.
Max, Maxed, Maxing: To reach level 99 in all skills ("I maxed yesterday"); to deal the maximum amount of damage in one hit ("my max is 32 with this gear"); a player with a combat level of 126 (often referred to as "maxed cb" or "max melee"). Is also applied to restricted accounts (such as "max med" or "maxed pure").
MB: Mage Arena bank or "my bad", meaning sorry.
MD: Melee distance
Med (helm): Medium helmet
Med level: Short for "medium level" (content, gear, mobs, etc); in context of PVP, an account with between 50-75 attack and/or defence.
Mem(s), Memb(s): Member
MEP1/ME1, MEP2/ME2: Mourning's End Part I and Mourning's End Part II, respectively
Merching, Merch, Merchanting: Usually means the buying of an item then selling that same item later on in order to make a profit.
Meta: "Most Effective Tactic Available" or the dominant strategy, referring to the best or most popular method used in a scenario such as skill training, bossing, etc.
MH: Mahogany Homes, Medium helmet
Mith: Mithril
MLM: Motherlode Mine
MM1/MM, MM2: Monkey Madness I and Monkey Madness II, respectively
Money snake, Money dragon: Terms for Zulrah and Vorkath, respectively; refers to their status as consistent moneymaking methods.
Mory: Morytania
Mossies: Moss giants
MSB, MSBi: Magic shortbow and Magic shortbow (i), respectively
MTA: Mage Training Arena, north of the Emir's Arena
Mud(s): Mud runes
Multi: Multicombat area
Muta, Mutta, Mut: Muttadiles, Mutagen
MVP: Most Valuable Player, an award given to the best player of a team.
Nat(s): Nature rune
Nech: Nechryael
Nerd-logged: Being forcibly logged out after 6 hours of continuous play on a world.
Nezzy, Nez, Neit, Neitz: Neitiznot, usually referring to the Helm of Neitiznot.
NH, NHer: No Honour—a player who wins by any means necessary in PvP.
Nibbler(s): Jal-Nib
Nitro: Nitroglycerin
NM: The Nightmare
NMZ, NZ: Nightmare Zone
No arm(ing): Fighting without armour.
Noob: New player, derived from newbie.
Noodle: To repeatedly miss/deal no damage to an enemy.
Nylo: Nylocas
(o): Offensive (blackjacks)
Obby, Obi, Oby: Obsidian, as in TzHaar items; Wilderness Obelisks.
Obby mauler, Obby pure: Obsidian mauler, a type of combat pure with low Attack and high Strength.
Occult, Occ: Occult necklace
OD: Overly Draining, a Tombs of Amascut invocation.
Off-tick: Attacking an NPC in a different tick than they are.
Oggies: Ogresses, primarily Ogress Warriors.
One-iteming (1-iteming): Using a single item (usually weapon) to minimise risk when player-killing.
Orn, (or): Ornamented
OSB: OSBuddy
OSRS: Old School RuneScape
Ovl(s): Overload potions.
(p), (p+), (p++): Poisoned
P#: Phases, usually of a boss.
P2P(er): Members (Pay-to-Play)
Pass: Password, Shantay Pass, Underground Pass
PB: Personal best, i.e. best completion time of a boss. Also refers to platebodies.
PC: Pest Control, Private chat, Price check
Pegs, Peggies: Pegasian boots
P ess: Pure essence
Ph, Phat: Partyhat
Phas: Port Phasmatys
Pile, Piling: Multiple people attacking the same opponent.
Pick: Pickaxe
PID: Player identification number
Pisc: Piscarilius, Piscatoris Fishing Colony
PJ, PJer, PJing: Pile jumping. The act of interrupting a player vs player fight by attacking one or both of the players, or attacking the winner of a fight, aiming to get the loot pile.
PK, PKer, PKing: Player killer/Player killing. Someone who is fighting other players - specifically in the Wilderness or other high risk PvP areas.
Plate, Pl8: Platebody
Plank: To die.
Pleae, Pls, Plz, Plox, Pl0x: Please
PM: Private message, Moons of Peril
PMod: Player Moderator
PNeck: Phoenix necklace
PNM: Phosani's Nightmare
Poacher: Someone who steals PvM kills, or hoards one NPC to themselves.
POH: Player-owned houses
Pot, Pots: Potion, lobster pot, pot. Can also be used to inform other players in a group to drink their potions ("pot up"), or furthermore used for preparing/asking to do something (e.g. "wanna pot tob?").
Potter: Someone who uses potions to fight.
PPot, Pray Pot: Prayer potion
PP: Pyramid Plunder, Pickpocketing, Prayer points.
Prepot(ing): Drinking potions at bank before taking supplies and going to a boss fight or slayer task in order to gain their bonus while saving inventory space.
Prif, Priff: Prifddinas
Prims: Primordial boots
Prod: Someone that relies on a certain weapon or special attack when Pking/PvPing to defeat their opponent. For example, "AGS prod".
Prossy: Proselyte armour
Prot: Protection prayers, Protect Item
PS: Potion share
Pure: Someone who trains only one type of skill; someone who only trains combat skills, or only non-combat skills. See Combat pure, Defence pure, or Skill pure.
Pure set: A potion set that consists of only a Super attack and a Super strength, without a Super defence. Also refers to a dragonhide armour set minus the body.
Purple, Purp: Unique drops from raids. Derived from the purple beam above the reward chest in the Chambers of Xeric and the purple outline of the reward chest in the Theatre of Blood that occur whenever a player receives a unique drop.
PW, Pass: Password
QC, QPC: Quest point cape
QoL: Quality-of-life - refers to an update that makes a tedious task easier.
QP(s): Quest points, Quick prayers
QS: Quick Start, phrase used before Barbarian Assault waves to start before the 60 second wait.
Quadrolo: A method of boosting xp/hr or boss kills/hr by playing four accounts at once. Combination of the words "quadruple" and "solo".
Quintolo: Another method of boosting xp/hr or boss kills/hr by playing five accounts at once. Combination of the words "quintuple" and "solo".
(r): Recoil
R2H: Rune 2h sword
Rags, Ragging, Raggers: Term often used in PKing for someone with inferior or cheap gear, sometimes synonymous with griefing.
Raids 1, Raids 2, Raids 3: Chambers of Xeric, Theatre of Blood and Tombs of Amascut, respectively
Rambo, Rambo spec, Rambo special: Term often used in pking for a high-hitting special attack, or a combination of regular hits that surprises the opponent. A word derived from John Rambo, a muscular hard lined character from the movie, First Blood.
Range tank: A player who focuses mainly on Ranged and Defence.
Rangers, Rngrs: Ranger boots, Tok-Xil, Jal-Xil
Rapier, Rap: Ghrazi rapier
RC(ing): Runecraft
RCB: Rune crossbow
RC Pker: A runecrafter player killer. Someone who kills runecrafters on their way to the Abyss runecraft area.
RD, R drag: Rune dragons
RDT: Rare drop table
Rebuild: To liquidate one's bank in order to buy a strong, versatile weapon (such as the bow of Faerdhinen) which can make the money back.
Recoil: Ring of recoil
Red barred: Term used to describe a player/NPC with so little Hitpoints that its health bar is almost completely red. For much of RuneScape 2, entities with large amounts of hit points could display a solid red health bar when they only had a few hit points. This was what lead to the phrase being coined.
Red helm: A Hardcore Ironman or Group Ironman.
Req(s): Requirement(s)
Rev(s): Revenants
Rex: Dagannoth Rex
RFD: Recipe for Disaster
RFH: Rune full helm
Rig, Rigo: Rigour
Rim, Rimmy: Rimmington
RL: RuneLite
RMH, Rmed: Rune med helm
RNG: Random number generator
Robin: Robin Hood hat
RoL: Ring of life
RoS: Ring of suffering
RotG: Ring of the gods
RoW: Ring of wealth
RPB: Rune Platebody
RS: RuneScape
RS2: RuneScape 2
RS3: The current main branch of RuneScape, RuneScape 3.
RSC, RS1: RuneScape Classic
RSHD: RuneScape HD, the era of RuneScape from mid 2008 to 2013; sometimes erroneously used to refer to the 117 HD RuneLite plugin or HDOS.
RSN: RuneScape character name
RSOF: RuneScape Official Forums
Runner: One who delivers items (typically for training processing skills, for example bones or pure essence) to a player, often for a fee.
Rush, Rusher: A PKing tactic, in which a player is attacked directly after finishing a fight by someone using a high-powered spec weapon (eg. Dragon claws, Armadyl godsword). See rushing.
RWH: Rune warhammer
RWT: Real world trading
Safer: Someone who heals at a life points value that is greater than the maximum hit of the opponent or in some cases eating to full Hitpoints. Typically used in the context of one-on-one PvP. Although, some use it in multi-way combat incorrectly.
Salad blade: Blade of saeldor
Salad robes: Xerician robes
Salve: Salve amulet
Sand casino: Former Duel Arena, particularly when used for staking wealth
Sang: Sanguinesti staff
Santa: Santa hat
Saph: Sapphire
Sara: Saradomin, Commander Zilyana (Usually referred to as Sara Boss)
Sarach, Sarac: Sarachnis
SBS: Spellbook Swap, Saradomin's blessed sword
SC: Skill capes
Scav: Scavenger
SCB, SCP: Super combat potion
Scimmy, Scim, Skim, Skimmy: Scimitar
Scy: Scythe, mostly referring to a Scythe of vitur
Seers: Seers' Village, Seers ring
Sep, Sepul, Sepu: Hallowed Sepulchre
Serp: Serpentine helm
SGS: Saradomin godsword
Shadow, SoT, ShaT: Tumeken's shadow
Shilo: Shilo Village
Shopscape: Gameplay revolving around repeated use of in-game shops, usually derogatory
Short: Shortsword, Shortbow
(sk): Item sets with plateskirts.
Skirt: Plateskirt
Skiller: Someone who trains non-combat skills (can be any Combat level)/more commonly someone who trains non-combat skills primarily or exclusively. See Skill pure.
Snipe: To target and gain a desirable item by outbidding or beating another player to it. See Sniping.
Snowflake: Account played with some sort of self-imposed limitation, such as being locked to a specific region or only able to train one skill at a time.
SoA: Shield of Arrav
SoL: Staff of light
Solid(s): Solid food — food that incurs a 3 tick attack delay when eaten. This applies to most foods in the game, such as sharks.
SoS, Stronghold: Stronghold of Security
Sot, Sote: Sotetseg
SotD: Staff of the dead
SotE: Song of the Elves
SotF: Sins of the Father
SotN: Secrets of the North
Spam: To click rapidly in succession, usually on a single target (i.e. an item or player). Alternatively, to send a chat message multiple times in a similarly repetitive manner ("They were spamming their Clan advertisement at the Grand Exchange all day!").
Spec: Special attack, Spectral spirit shield
Split(ting): An agreement when bossing with other players to have the person who gets a drop sell it and (usually) evenly split the gold among them.  Antonym: see free-for-all.
Spoon, Spooned, Spooning: To obtain a rare or desirable drop (such as a pet) with relatively little time/effort expended, originating either from "spoonfed" or "silver spoon".  Antonym: see dry.
Sq: Square shield
SS: Saradomin sword, screenshot
SSC: Stronghold Slayer Cave
Staff: Usually referring to the Tumeken's shadow.
Stam (pot): Stamina potion
Str: Strength
Suff, Suffering: Ring of suffering
Sulli(s), Sully, Sullies: Sulliuscep
Super AP: Superantipoison
Super sets (Sup att/atk, Sup def, Sup str): Super attack potion, Super defence potion, Super strength potion
SW: Soul Wars
Swamp: Trident of the swamp
Sword: Swordfish, sword, or longsword.
Swordy: Swordfish
(t): Trimmed
Tab: A teleport tablet
Tag: Attacking a monster first.
Tali: Talisman
Tanz: Tanzanite fang
Tass, Tassets, Tassy, Tassies: Bandos tassets
Tb, Tb'd: Tele Block, reference to someone getting teleport blocked, mainly used during PKing. Also: Trouble Brewing
TB, TBL, TBZ: Trailblazer League
TBow: Twisted bow
TBP: Toxic blowpipe
TBuck: Twisted buckler
Tears, ToG: Tears of Guthix
Tek: Tekton
Tent: Abyssal tentacle or Kraken tentacle
Thermy: Thermonuclear smoke devil
TL: Twisted League
ToA: Tombs of Amascut
ToB: Theatre of Blood
Todt: Wintertodt
Tome, ToF: Tome of fire
Torm, Tor: Tormented bracelet
Torso: Fighter torso
Tort, Torture: Amulet of torture
Total, TL: Total level or total experience
TP, Tele: Teleport
Transmog: A pet, piece of armour, or weapon that has been cosmetically altered. Example: Dragon full helm (g) or JalRek-Jad
Trolo: A method of boosting xp/hr or boss kills/hr by playing three accounts at once. Combines the words "trio" and "solo".
True tile: The actual location where the game considers the player to be compared to where the game's graphics depict them. A discrepancy between where a player appears to be and where the game considers them to be is caused by the fact that all animations are delayed by one game tick, causing animations to essentially be played slightly in advance to look smooth.
TSotD, TSoD: Toxic staff of the dead
TT: Treasure Trails
TTK: Time to kill, the time it takes to kill a specific monster.
Tupo: Tuna potato
Ty4r, Ty4rs: Thank you for raids/rounds, said at the end of a group session
(u): Unstrung, unenchanted, uncharged, etc.
UGIM: Unranked Group Ironman
UIM: Ultimate Ironman
(unf): Unfinished
Unid(s): Unidentified minerals, Grimy herbs
Vambs, Vams: Vambraces, usually referring to the Zaryte vambraces.
Vang(s): Vanguards
Vard, Vardo: Vardorvis
Varr: Varrock
Vbow, V bow: Venator bow
Velds: Bloodvelds
Vene: Venenatis
Veng(e): Vengeance or Vengeance Other
Ver, V (Armour): Verac the Defiled's equipment, i.e. V Brassy
Verz: Verzik Vitur
Vesp: Vespula
Vis(sy): Visage, usually referring to a Draconic Visage
VLS: Vesta's longsword
VM: Volcanic Mine
Void, Voider: A type of account build or a player, especially a player killer wearing Void Knight or Elite Void Knight equipment.
Voli, Volly, Vola: Volatile nightmare staff
Vork: Vorkath
VSkirt: Verac's plateskirt
Vuln: Vulnerability
VV: Vile Vigour
VW: Voidwaker
(w): Watered
W#: World #, where # is the world in question. e.g. "W360"
Ward: Elidinis' ward
WC(ing): Woodcutting, wrong chat (WC)
Wealth: Ring of wealth
Welfare: Using cheap gear with minimal to no risk, usually in a PvP scenario.
Wep(s): Weapons
WGS: While Guthix Sleeps
WGWD: Wilderness God Wars Dungeon
WH, War: Warhammer
Whip: Abyssal whip
Wildy, Wild: Wilderness
Whisp, Wisp, Whispy: The Whisperer
Wipe: To fail, typically in reference to a whole team dying within a raid.
Wizzy: Wizard, Wizard robes
Woox walking: Walking in a specific pattern while fighting Vorkath during his poison special attack in such a way to continue to hit him while avoiding poison splats, popularized by Runescape player Woox. Detailed explanation here
WT: Wintertodt
Xarp: Xarpus
Xbow, X-bow: Crossbow (weapon)
XD, Xd, X|): An emoticon used to convey excitement or laughter. The latter expression ("Xd") is much more common in-game as the game's chat does not naturally support sequential capitalization.
X-logging: X-logging
XP/H, XPH: Experience per hour
Yan: Yanille
Yh: Yes/Yeah
Z (weapon/armour name): Zamorak, Zaryte
Zalc: Zalcano
Zammy: Zamorak, K'ril Tsutsaroth
Z book, Zammy book: Unholy book
ZCB, ZBow: Zaryte crossbow
Zenny, Zenn: Zenyte, usually referring to Zenyte shards.
Zerk, Zerker(s): Berserker
ZGS: Zamorak godsword
Zik: Verzik Vitur
Zily, Zilly, Zilya: Commander Zilyana
ZMI: Ourania altar
Z spear, Zammy spear, ZS: Zamorakian spear
Zuk: TzKal-Zuk
Zul, Zully: Zulrah
ZVambs, ZVams: Zaryte vambraces
: #
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
